First Client Consultation Transcript


Me: Hello, Duha. As an IB Diploma Program candidate, I must solve a real-world problem using
computer science software. You consistently complain to me about your struggles to manage
your time and tasks as an ADHD patient. If you’re interested, I can make a software product that
would assist you with your struggles.

Client: That would be great!

Me: Fantastic. Can you describe the specific issues that you have?

Client: Well, as you know, I’ve always had trouble staying focused and organized enough to
manage my tasks, especially when the COVID-19 pandemic happened. But even when we return
to in-person learning, I feel like the procrastination habits that have formed during the pandemic
will persist. Some of these issues include not being able to realize how soon my deadlines are
and getting distracted easily.

Me: Have you tried using software applications like Google Calendar or Any.do? They’re helpful
for tasks and time management.

Client: I have tried them but they did not work for me. Each one of such applications has some
desirable features but none of them have all the features at once. Whenever I would switch from
one application to the other, I would risk losing focus. I also focus by listening to music, taking
notes, and timing myself, which require even more applications to manage. This prevents me
from staying on task. Plus, having all of these applications take away from the limited storage
space on my devices.

Me: I’m sorry to hear about your troubles and I’m sure I can help with them. You mentioned that
you do like some of the features of some applications. Could you specify what exactly you need
in a task management software product?

Client: Of course! For starters, I would prefer a website rather than an application due to my
limited storage. The website must have a calendar that displays my tasks and visually shows
where the tasks are in relation to the current day and time. I also need a to-do list of all of my
tasks. I should be able to add and delete individual tasks from the calendar and the list at the
same time. I also want to be able to reset the calendar and the to-do list with one click. To
manage my time, I need a visual way to manage time for work and break intervals. It should be
designed in a way that is convenient for ADHD people. However, it should also be customizable
in case I need to manipulate the time intervals for work and break time. It should be motivating
and it should encourage discipline and time management while also allowing my freedom of
choice. For notes taking, I want a section of the website where I can write whatever I want,
whether to help me clear my head or to take notes about the tasks, and be able to save it to my
computer. I also want to be able to edit what I have saved on my computer. Lastly, I need a way
to listen to motivational and focused music without having to switch to the Spotify application or
web player, which either slows down my computer or distracts me with my phone.

Me: Sounds good. What information do you want to input for each task? And what type of
calendar do you want?

Client: I would like a weekly calendar because it has fewer days, which makes it less distracting
to me. I should be able to enter the day, time, description, and subject of each task.

Me: How do you want the calendar and its associated tasks list to be stored?

Client: I actually do not want the tasks and their information to be stored because I dislike them
piling up and then having to delete them. If I know that refreshing the webpage would remove
them, then I would have much motivation to complete them in a timely manner, or else I would
have to add them to the webpage again. I know it sounds strange but I have to discipline myself
in order to accomplish things. Speaking of motivation, I would also like you to make the website
as motivational as possible.

Me: That is understandable. What would you like the user interface to look like?

Client: The design and layout should be minimal and easy to follow without being distracted by
unnecessary things. It should also be visually appealing so I can stay motivated. It must have
contrasting colors that make it easy to distinguish various elements. Also, most, if not all, of the
text on the website should be in lowercase letters because uppercase letters make me feel
nervous. I tend to lose track of time and work beyond my dedicated working time, which is from
8 in the morning until 8 at night. Therefore, I would also like some form of reminder to alert me
when I’m working outside of the aforementioned time interval.

Me: As far as I know, ADHD patients benefit from breathing exercises and small games. Would
you like me to incorporate these features into the website so that you can stay focused and
motivated?

Client: Yes, please. That would be greatly appreciated.

Me: Got it! Anything else you want me to add?

Client: If you could also allow me to edit the tasks in the calendar even after they’ve been
entered, that would be great. I tend to make a lot of careless mistakes when typing.

Me: So you want the calendar table cells to be editable as well?

Client: Yes, exactly.

Me: Sure thing! This makes me wonder if you want more ways to reduce user-error in terms of
entering data in other aspects of the website. Would you like that?

Client: Yes, I can’t believe I haven’t mentioned that before. Please make sure to include it in
things like the customization of the work and break session manager.

Me: Noted! Is that all?

Client: Yes, thank you!

Me: I’m looking forward to communicating with you during this process and getting your
feedback.

Client: Likewise, I’m looking forward to it!